Psychiatry clinic history
Current Illness 
The patient is a 77-year-old man who was sent to the Memory Clinic for agitation due to a history of dementia, hyperlipidemia, coronary artery disease (CAD), s/p coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), and aortic valve replacement (AVR).
According to a family member of the patient, he began having memory issues in 2002, which increased considerably following his CABG and AVR in 2004. He exhibited functional deficiencies in the following instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs) when he presented to the clinic: managing finances, driving, cooking, and shopping.
For some time, the patient was noticed to be easily irritated and irritable, and he was sent to the Memory Clinic for displaying verbal and physical hostility against his wife and others. The patient was just examined by his primary care physician for this problem, and all of his laboratory tests were normal, as was a later MRI of the brain.
The patient reported a healthy appetite but denied any sleep or weight abnormalities. He also denied having suicidal thoughts or having visual/auditory hallucinations. He did, however, admit to being depressed because he was concerned about his memory issues.

On examination
The patient's Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was 16/30, while the patient's and wife's Cornell Scale for Depression in Dementia scores were 8 and 14, respectively.

Evaluation and Planning
The patient displayed few typical signs of depression, but his wife noticed agitation and irritation in addition to the patient's depressed mood. In this situation, the patient's dementia may cause him to minimise or be ignorant of his symptoms. After one week, the patient's dose of a Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitor (SSRI) was raised to 50mg PO qD. The patient's wife was also given advice on how to handle her husband's anger and violence, and she was urged to call the Alzheimer's Association to join a caregiver support group.

Follow up
Four weeks later, the patient and his wife returned. The wife claimed that the symptoms had completely resolved, and the patient denied feeling depressed, saying, "I am a happy man." The patient's wife also mentioned contacting the Alzheimer's Association and joining a caregiver support group. She learnt about several ways for caring for her spouse in order to reduce his symptoms.
