A&E - Paediatric
A three-week-old female is brought to the ED for vomiting and fussiness. On examination, she is fussy, has perioral cyanosis, and is mottled.
10 hours of decreased activity, lethargy, followed by vomiting after feedings and fussiness. Vomited after last feed, approximately 2 hours ago. 
Has a history of an abnormal pulmonic valve with some stenosis and pulmonic valve regurgitation diagnosed by prenatal echocardiogram. Was in NICU for 2 weeks after birth.

O/E
Infant is fussy, but consolable.
There are mild subcostal retractions.
Vital Signs Include 
Heart rate: 222 bpm 
Respiratory rate: 36 breaths/min 
Blood pressure: 83/58 mmHg 
Temperature: 36.3°C 
Weight: 3.5 kg
Mottled extremities with poor perfusion to hands and feet. 
Anterior fontanelle flat, nose has no discharge and is not congested, and mouth is moist. 
Rapid heart rate, no murmurs heard, and lungs clear. 
Abdomen: Soft, liver edge palpable, spleen not palpable. 
Neurologic examination: Awake, not lethargic, cries and moves all extremities with examination.

Investigations & Management:
Provided oxygen 100% by non-rebreather mask. 
Placed on cardiac monitor.
After applying oxygen, perioral cyanosis improves, and pulse oximeter improves to 100%. 
Cardiac monitor shows wide complex tachycardia , rate – 218/min
IV access was obtained and bedside glucose was 80 mg/dL. 
Adenosine 0.1 mg/kg was administered with no change in heart rate. 
Adenosine 0.2 mg/kg was given with heart rate slowing to 216 bpm then returning to 231 
bpm, still with a wide complex rhythm. The infant’s respiratory rate was 48 breaths/min and the 
blood pressure was 84/58 mmHg. 
CXR revealed a normal size heart, and clear lung fields, so a bolus of 10 mL/kg of normal saline was given. 
Amiodarone was administered (1 mg/kg over 5 minutes per cardiology request) with no change in the heart rate. 
Due to respiratory fatigue, the infant was electively intubated and transferred to the PCU. In the PCU the rhythm was confirmed to be VT and the pt was converted with a higher dose of amiodarone. 
The following day she underwent pulmonic valve replacement and sent home

