Surgical Clinic Note
History of the presenting complaint:
A 77 year old male, a boutique  owner, presented with persistent dull  ache in the right lumbar region and right loin of six months duration. This was not associated with fever  with chills and rigors or  haematuria.  He had no features of prostatism.
There were no episodes of colicky abdominal pain over  the right side of abdomen. There were no recent change in bowel habits, and there was no nausea or vomiting. But he had significantly lost appetite and weight over the last few months. There were no episodic headache, palpitation or increased sweating. There was no backache or bone pain associated with the illness. He could attend to his routine work without shortness of breath or chest pain. He had not noticed any swelling in the right side of the scortum. He had no cough or haemoptysis. He had not noticed swelling of the lower limb during this period.
No past history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, ischaemic heart diseases, asthma, allergy or bleeding disorders. He never underwent surgery in the past.
No family history of significant surgical or medical illnesses.
He has two children. Both are employed.
He does not consume alcohol. He does not smoke.

Examination findings:
He is generally well, his height was 5 feet. His weight was 37 kg. He was pale but not icteric. No evidence of nutritional deficiencies or  ankle oedema. No generalised lymphadenopathy. No bone or spine tenderness.
Cardiovascular System
	Pulse Rate 76 / mt, good volume, regular
	Blood pressure   160 /80 mmHg.   JVP was not elevated
	Heart examination  revealed no abnormalities.

Respiratory System
	Not dyspnoeic
	Respiratory rate  16 /mt. Respiratory movements are equal on both sides.
	Trachea was central in position
	Vesicular breathing. No added sounds were heard.

Central Nervous  System
	Examination revealed no abnormalities.

Abdominal Examination
	No distention. No visible scars  or distended veins.
Tender, firm, globular mass of about 8cm in diameter  with  smooth surface was felt  in the right lumbar region. Upper margin could be felt. Mass  moved with respiration and  it was ballotable. No evidence of free fluid in the peritoneal cavity. Liver was not palpable. There was loin fullness and tenderness. Hernial orifices  and external genitalia  were normal. Bowel sounds were heard.

Digital examination of rectum
	Normal  sphincter tone, no masses were felt. Prostate was normal in size. Finger 	was  not blood stained.

DD: Presentation with dull ache  in the right lumbar region with loin pain is suggestive of a renal lesion. This was supported by a firm, globular, well defined ballotable swelling in the right lumbar region and loin fullness and tenderness. These features could  be possibly due to  a renal mass such as hydronephrosis, renal cyst or polysystic kidney or renal neoplasm. Absence of features suggestive of partial or  total obstruction of the renal tract (such as calculus, stricture or prosthetic enlargement) and impaired renal function makes hydronephrosis less likely. Age  of the patient,  recent duration of symptoms,  absence of haematuria and hypertension makes polycystic renal disease  as an unlikely cause. Instead these  features could  possibly due to a renal neoplasm or solitary cyst.

Investigations done:
Urine Full report		:	Occasional Pus Cells
					Red Cell      - Moderately field full
					Sugar	        - Nil
					Albumin      - Nil
ESR				:	 84 mm on 25/11/93
					108 mm on 01/12/93		
WBC/DC			:	9400 /mm3
					N- 62%    L-33%   E-05%
Hb				:	9.5 g /dl
Bleeding Time			:	3 minutes
Clotting Time			:	8 minutes
Blood Urea			:	28 mg %
Serum Creatinine		:	0.8 mg %
Serum Electrolytes		:	Na + - 134 m. eq / l
					K +   - 3.8 m.eq / l
Liver Function Tests		:	SGPT  -  71 iu
					SGOT  -  40 iu
					Prothrombin time  -  16 seconds
					Serum Proteins      -  5.2 g %
					(Alb - 3.19%, Glob  - 2.19%)
Fasting Blood Sugar		:	83 mg %
Chest X’ Ray			:	No abnormalities were detected

X’ Ray of  the kidney, ureter, bladder: Right psoas shadow was obliterated, enlarged renal shadow in the upper pole of right  kidney 

Ultrasound Scan of Abdomen: There is a solid  mass (4.2 cm x 5.6 cm ) in the upper pole of right kidney, suggestive of suprarenal or renal mass. No evidence  of invasion of right renal vein or inferior vena cava. Left kidney appears normal. Liver, Gall bladder, pancreas, spleen appear normal. No evidence of  para aortic lymph nodes enlargement. No ascites.

Intravenous Urogram: There is a  well defined soft tissue mass at right upper pole. Distance between upper calyces and renal outline is widened. There are splaying out of calyces. Excretion pattern of both kidneys are normal. Appearances are consistent with a neoplastic lesion in the upper pole  of right kidney.
Clinical diagnosis of renal neoplasm was confirmed by ultrasound  scan examination and intravenous urogram and supported by persistently raised ESR and abnormal liver function tests.

Patient referred to oncology clinic for further assessment and surgery.
